Gerard Holzman, JPL
-------------------

Messages, evrs, eha are observables in old arch.
Busses are observables in simulink.


Robert Klarr, SwRI
-------------------

Leon3 Sparc8 
Dual core, but ran single core at 25 MHz to make software simpler.

Flight Core, a message passing pub-sub. SwRI and CSDraper developed before CFE
was available via sourceforge. Have used for past few missions. Similar to CFE, 
but not CFE based.

SwRI - CDH on Core
CSDraper Labs Houston -- ACS on Core
Delay Doppler Maps for surface (wave) characterization
CFDP blows, ground system integration nightmare even with experience

Compression: Get useful information from instrument data generation, which the
scientists could identify how to get the 2% (50:1) that is information from
the data.

1. Find the interesting features, and subframe to there.
2. Then get rid of noise floor to increase data entropy.
3. Then compress using stupid compressors.


Lorraine Fesq, JPL
-------------------

Developing NASA Fault Management Guidebook for Deep Space Robotic
Misions. There is a guidebook that Lorraine presented before.

Some implemented in SW, some in hardware. Cassini, 50% of FSW was involved in
fault management.

Looking backward: how has NASA done it before, keep doing it that way. Who
needs innovation.

Testing FM is tough, takes forever. Seems to be a pervasive problem.

4/9/12 Draft 2 is still most recent release.

Comments were contridictory, so many comments cannot be dispositioned. Its a
diverse field.

Instead of trying to identify one approach, maybe "within each community" we
can attack the problem and define how to approach FM, so each community gets a
chapter, everyone can understand how other communities do it.

So now: Deep Space Robotic -- focus on one community, one type of mission.
Still, there is no guidebook. Used architectures and designs from past
missions.

APL, SAE, IEEE, and Aerospace are all developing guidelines, most have
versions released in the last decade or so.

Wow, is this ever focusing on non-flight artifacts! Bummer...

Put it in PowerPoint, then move it to the web and do everything there.

Tension with lean-ness.

People quoting my statement "Planning extinguishes innovation."

Training struggle. PowerPoint is just a starting point for training, need
something that people can use and experiment with in order to truly
internalize learning.


Fellice Torelli, ESA, Italian Space Agency
------------------------------------------

CCSDS spacecraft onboard interface surfaces (SOIS) and electronic data sheets

DAS - Device Access Services
DVS - Device Virtualization Service
DDPS - Device Data Pooling Service
TAS - Time Access Service
MTS - Message Transfer Servcice
FPSS - File and Packet Storage Service
DDS - Device Discovery Service, originally a plug-n-play service
Packet Service, Memory Access Service, and Synchronization Service.

SOIS Electronic Data Sheets

Formalized description of hardware instead of just write a bunch of code and spreadsheets. 

EDS (electronic data sheets) is a series of books using XML schema.

Byte ordering described in EDS, but handing this is up to the code slinger. 
Device access service does no data transforms.
